A country nebula represents one of the final stages in the life of a star...end ofA country nebula represents one of the final stages in the life of a star...end of
test
it slide before consumes all of its remaining fuel they start x
...outer layers.
These are...excited by the radiation of...and begin to...
Showing intricate and fascinating structures
that scientists are still trying to fully understand.
Inverse.
Hi, and, welcome to the holocaust but previous episodes we've looked at a lot of
...villages of planetary nebula and...talked about how they tell us about the
ultimate fate of our own songs now in this episode we're
going to take a closer look at just one of the planetary nebula that from
like many others...in fact...anything in life that planet.
Known by its catalogue number
...five one eight nine.
This planetary nebula might not sound very exciting.
When it was discovered in the nineteenth-century
the telescopes of today could benny may count any structure?
That advances in telescope technology over a century into
...have borne fruit.
For a long-time the best image of this object was from the
europeans seven observatories mc tune which reveals energy
seen five one eight nine complex...
Then came...remarkable picture from the eighth
meters gemini self telescope but if you point...latin.
Well, if you point hub of it when you get to see some truly spectacular
detail culture which has never been seen before.
And, that's of course due to hubble's unique vantage point above the earth's atmosphere
now if we zooming close which we can...hubble's high-resolution
we start seeing these very dense not in the clouds of gas.
Problem...before most famously in the helix maybe...
Now what's going on here is that the radiation from the dying
...carving these notes into shape forming these
growing file wave like patterns much like water flowing around
the role industry and these are all pointing towards the center of the nebula.
The notes and energy
...five one eight nine reminder of just...being.
They might look insignificant here but they are actually a similar
signs to the intelligence services system.
This star at the center of the nebula...whites tool.
Is far too small to see is anything other than a
point of light even though it is roughly the size of the earth?
And, you see a five one eight nine
spiral shape is perhaps its most obvious feature leading to its nickname
...this spiral planetary nebula the structures reminiscent of water coming
from lawn sprinkler is probably due to the start rotating and what
willing as...matter similar structures have been seen before
especially in planetary maybe with binary stars at the sentence?
But, whether there are two stars or just the one at the center of engine
...one eight nine remains an open question so it
shape and the signs that lies behind it remain a fascinating area for
astronomers to study this is doctor...signing...for the holocaust once again
...surprise us beyond our wildest imagination.
Now that you've caught up with hubble make sure to get the latest from the ground to the east
...highlights the best of the european southern observatory and
it's powerful telescopes that observed from high in the chilean andy's at
the southern hemisphere is best known sites for astronomical observations.